# Random-Forest-for-Urban-Expansion-Prediction-Simulation
The main objective is to develop a hybrid model of Cellular Automata and Random Forest (RF) to simulate urban expansion, using classified Landsat images, the model incorporated driving factors that influence urban expansion to determine the RF regression, and from this, obtain the transition potential of all pixels to become urban after a period.

The codes are:
- for classifying Landsat images with the Random Forest classifier for use in forecasting;
- for predicting/simulating urban growth with the Random Forest regressor using driving factors.

This is the result of a master's thesis entitled 'Determination of Transition Potential with Random Forest in Urban Expansion Processes in Curitiba and East Vector'.

Abstract 
Since the century XVIII, accelerated urbanization has transformed cities, such as the Metropolitan Region of Curitiba (RMC), from 3.2 million (2010) to 3.5 million inhabitants (2022), accompanied by the growth of the excluded population, allocated in vulnerable housing conditions. There is an urgent need to develop adequate strategies to manage urban growth in a sustainable way (UN-Habitat, 2020). Simulation models of urban expansion are a way to understand cities to provide data for decision makers and urban planning. Among these, cellular automata (CA) have been widely applied (ZHOU et al., 2019). The main objective of this work is to develop a hybrid model of Cellular Automata (CA) and Random Forest (RF) to simulate urban expansion in Curitiba and the eastern region of the RMC, places with important water sources and rapid growth. Using classified Landsat images, the model incorporated driving factors that influence urban expansion to determine the RF regression, and from this, obtain the transition potential of all non-urban pixels to become urban after a period. The transition potential guided the AC rules, with water bodies being used as growth restrictions. Simulations for 5-year periods (2005-2020) presented AUC of 0.91-0.94 and total accuracy greater than 97%, and the prediction of new urban pixels reached 45%. The value of the figure of merit (FoM) is close to other studies (LV et al., 2021; KAMUSOKO and GAMBA, 2015; CHEN, 2022), reaching the best value of 0.29. Among the various evaluation metrics used, it can be stated that the results of the study achieved the objective, demonstrating the great capacity of the RF to produce a transition potential that is faithful to reality.
Keywords: Urban Modeling; Urban Expansion; Cellular Automata 
